<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<chapter id="introduction">
<title>s3d - the server</title>
<sect1 id="client_server">
<title>Client-Server Architecture</title>
 <para><application>s3d</application> is build as client-server architecture, similar to the xserver.
 	The s3d-server is the program executed on the users desktop and waits for incoming connections, the applications,
	which give their content they want to have displayed to the server. The server will then display the content to the 
	user, who can move to the 3D space, and interact (mouse moving/clicking, keyboard), and the client will receive these 
	signals over the network from the server.
 </para>
 <para>
	Just like on the X-Server, it may seem unusual to have the "server" on the own machine, while the "client" may be 
	on any other machine with network connection. But this makes features possible like browsing files on your 
	file server or even access point. ;)
</para>
<para>
	Don't let the server-client thing confuse you too much for now, on a properly installed system the s3d will startup with
	the mcp (which is the window manager in s3d-terms) which will give you a complete look and feel just as you would expect.
</para>
<para>
	More (internal) information about the server will be presented here as soon as someone is interested. ;)
</para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="Moving">
<title>Moving in s3d</title>
<para>
this is not the final version for movement, but ...

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
hold middle mouse button (or left+right at once if you have middle-mousebutton-emulation) and move your mouse to move around the world
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
hold right mouse button and move mouse to rotate the mouse (look around)
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
left mouse button is for clicking :)
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
presse f2 to get in ego-shooter mode :D you can use w,a,s,d for movement now. f2 again to deactivate.
this only works with dot_mcp, the others above work out-of-the box within the server.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="s3drc">
<title>The s3drc file</title>
<para>
You can automatically fire up the mcp or anything you want with s3d and 
have it closed when s3d goes down or vice versa:
</para>
<para>
just create a shellscript at position /etc/s3drc or ~/.s3drc, for example
have it starting the mcp. Don't forget to toggle it executable (chmod 755 
or so).
</para>
<para>
When s3d starts, it will look for ~/.s3drc or /etc/s3drc (in this order),
and will start it along with the server. E.g. when you log out off your mcp,
the s3d server is shut down too.
</para>
<para>
You can disable this behavior with s3d --no-rc
</para>
<para>
For example my .s3drc looks like this:
</para>
 <screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> cat ~/.s3drc 
 #!/bin/sh
cd ~/msrc/s3d/apps/dot_mcp/
./dot_mcp
</screen>
</sect1>
</chapter>
