<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<chapter id="libs3d">
<title>libs3d - The S3D API</title>
<sect1 id="using">
<title>Using the <application>s3d</application> library</title>
<sect2 id="setup">
<title>Setting <application>s3d</application> up</title>
 <para>
 Install the lib using the usual usual mechanism:
 <programlisting>
 cmake .
 make
 make install
 </programlisting>
 You might need to have superuser rights in order to do make install. You should now have the server,
 the library and some applications installed somewhere.
 </para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="gettingstarted">
<title>Getting started</title>
<para>
 After having <application>s3d</application> installed, you can write your own <application>s3d</application> programs (yeah, that is what this guide is about ;)
 <programlisting>
 <![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]>
 </programlisting>
 should be enough to access the 3d functions. If you want to use keyboard interaction, do
 <programlisting>
 <![CDATA[#include <s3d_keysym.h>]]>
 </programlisting>
 for the keycode table.
 Now you can compile your program with 
 <screen>
 <prompt>bash$</prompt> <command> gcc <replaceable>program</replaceable>.c -ls3d -o <replaceable>program</replaceable> </command>
 That wasn't that hard, wasn't it?
 </screen>
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>


<sect1 id="functions">
<title>function reference</title>

<sect2 id="s3d_init">
<title>s3d_init</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_init</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int *<parameter>argc</parameter>,
char ***<parameter>argv</parameter>,
const char *<parameter>name</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This will initialize the <application>s3d</application>-library and the connection to the Server. It will return 0 on
success in Server initializion. name specifies the your programs name.
</para>
<programlisting>
int main(char argc, char **argv)
{
	if (!<emphasis>s3d_init(<![CDATA[&argc, &argv]]>, "Hello world")</emphasis>) 
	{
		...
		<link linkend="s3d_quit">s3d_quit()</link>;
	}
	return(0);
}
			   
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_quit">
<title>s3d_quit</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_quit</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
closes the connection and cleares the event-stack. it can also be used to leave
the <link linkend="s3d_mainloop">s3d_mainloop</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_usage">
<title>s3d_usage</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_usage</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Prints the possible parameter for the client library (which can be passed in 
<link linkend="s3d_init">s3d_init()</link>)
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_mainloop">
<title>s3d_mainloop</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_mainloop</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void (*<parameter>f</parameter>)(void)</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
takes a function as argument. it will loop this function until a quit-event is
received. you can pass NULL if you have no function to be looped, but its
better to sleep some time if you have nothing to do anyway to save cpu-time.
</para>
<programlisting>
void mainloop()
{
    usleep(1000); // sleep 1 ms in every cycle
}
...

<emphasis>s3d_mainloop</emphasis>(mainloop());

</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_push_vertex">
<title>s3d_push_vertex</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_vertex</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, float <parameter>x</parameter>, float <parameter>y</parameter>, float <parameter>z</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
pushes a vertex onto the vertex stack. make sure that you count how many
vertices you've pushed because you'll need that for referencing when you push
your polygons.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_push_vertices</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_vertices</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, const float *<parameter>vbuf</parameter>, uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
push some vertices from an array. that's much better for performing than
using <link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex()</link> if you have a lot of vertices (and that's probably the
usual case).
</para>
<programlisting>
float vertices[] = { 0.0, 0.0, 0.0,
                     1.0, 2.0, 3.0,
                     3.0, 2.0, 1.0};
<emphasis>s3d_push_vertices</emphasis>(object, vertices, 3); /* pushing 3 vertices */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_push_material">
<title>s3d_push_material</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_material</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>amb_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_b</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
pushes a material for an object. you will have to count them yourself too, as
polygons will ask for the material index number. the material properties are
given in rgb (red/green/blue) color codes, in float. 0.0 is the minimum,
1.0 is the maximum a color value can be.
the specular color is the color which is directly reflected from the light
source. the diffuse color is the color which can be seen in the bright side
of the object, and the ambience color is the color of the shadow side of the
object.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_push_material_a">
<title>s3d_push_material_a</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_material_a</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>amb_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_a</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_a</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_a</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Same as <link linkend="s3d_push_material">s3d_push_material</link>, but color has <link linkend="alpha">alpha value</link> added.
Use <link linkend="s3d_push_materials_a">s3d_push_materials_a()</link> if you have a lot of materials to push.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_push_materials_a">
<title>s3d_push_materials_a</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_materials_a</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>mbuf</parameter>, 
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pushes a buffer of Materials. Those Materials are in the format float[n*12], with
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>mbuf[n*12 + 0-3] - ambience</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>mbuf[n*12 + 4-7] - specular</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>mbuf[n *12 + 8-11] - diffusion values </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
of each entry. n is the number of materials pushed. The values are in the order r,g,b,a.
If you only want to push one material, use the more easy <link linkend="s3d_push_material_a">s3d_push_material_a()</link>
function.
</para>
<programlisting>
/* each line has r,g,b,a value */
float bla[24]=
	{1, 0, 0, 1,
	 1, 0, 0, 1,
	 1, 0, 0, 1,
	 0, 1, 1, 1,
	 0, 1, 1, 1,
	 0, 1, 1, 1};

s3d_push_materials_a(object, mbuf, 2); /* push a red and a cyan material */
</programlisting>
</sect2>



<sect2>
<title>s3d_push_polygon</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_polygon</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>v1</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>v2</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>v3</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>material</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
push one polygon on the polygonstack of the object. it takes 3 vertex-index-
numbers and one material material-index-nr. as argument.
</para>
<programlisting>
int oid=<link linkend="s3d_new_object">s3d_new_object</link>();   /* create a new object */
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_material">s3d_push_material</link>(oid, 0.3, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<emphasis>s3d_push_polygon</emphasis>(oid, 0, 1, 2, 0);
/* this will create a red polygon */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_push_polygons</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_polygons</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const uint32_t *<parameter>pbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
as for vertices, you can push arrays of polygons to have greater performance.
the pbuf should contain n polygons which consist of 4 uint32_t values
of 3 vertices indices and 1 material index.
</para>
<programlisting>
uint32_t pbuf[] = { 0, 1, 2, 0};
int oid=<link linkend="s3d_new_object">s3d_new_object</link>();   /* create a new object */
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_vertex">s3d_push_vertex</link>(oid, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<link linkend="s3d_push_material">s3d_push_material</link>(oid, 0.3, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0);
<emphasis>s3d_push_polygons</emphasis>(oid, pbuf, 1);
/* push one polygon with the pbuf data */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_push_line">
<title>s3d_push_line</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_line</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>v1</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>v2</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>material</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Push one line on the linestack of the object. It takes 2 vertex-index-
numbers and one material material-index-nr. as argument. If you have
a lot of lines to push, use <link linkend="s3d_push_lines">s3d_push_lines()</link>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_push_lines">
<title>s3d_push_lines</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_lines</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const uint32_t *<parameter>lbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pushing n lines on the linestack of the object, each lbuf has a size of n*3,
each entry has the index number of the first vertex, second vertex and material number just
as in <link linkend="s3d_push_line">s3d_push_line()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_push_texture">
<title>s3d_push_texture</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_texture</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>w</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>h</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Adds a new texture with height w and height h on the texturestack.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_push_textures</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_push_textures</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const uint16_t *<parameter>tbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
As for vertices, you can push arrays of textures on the texture stack 
to have greater performance.
The tbuf should contain n texture sizes which consist of 2 uint16_t values
for width and height for each texture. 
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_vertex</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pop_vertex</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the latest n vertices from the vertex stack of the object.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_polygon</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pop_polygon</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the latest n polygon from the polygon stack of the object.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_material</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pop_material</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the latest n material from the material stack of the object.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_texture</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pop_texture</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the latest n textures from the texture stack of the object.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_line</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pop_line</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the latest n lines from the line stack of the object.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_polygon_normals">
<title>s3d_pep_polygon_normals</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_polygon_normals</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>nbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Adds normal information to polygons, giving each vertex of a polygon a normal information. With this, you can
achieve smoothed edge effects. 
</para>
<para>
nbuf should contain n * 9 float values, for each vertex a normal vector (x,y,z), and you have 
3 Vertices for each Polygon so that makes 9 float values per Polygon in Total.	
Don't worry if you don't use this, it's kind of hard to calculate and the server will always use some
proper normal values (same for every vertex, calculated by the plane which is defined by the 3 points of the polygon.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord">
<title>s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>x1</parameter>, 
float <parameter>y1</parameter>, 
float <parameter>x2</parameter>, 
float <parameter>y2</parameter>, 
float <parameter>x3</parameter>, 
float <parameter>y3</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pimp the last polygon pushed with some textures coordinates, x and y values for each vertex point respectively.
Those values may be between 0 and 1 and are vertex points on the <link linkend="s3d_pep_material_texture">
texture defined in the material</link> of the polygon. If you have more polygons which should get a texture, use
<link linkend="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords">s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords()</link>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords">
<title>s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>tbuf</parameter>, 
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pimp the latest n polygons with texture coordinates. tbuf has 6*n float values for its entries, which are supplied in the order
as in <link linkend="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord">s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord()</link>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_material_texture">
<title>s3d_pep_material_texture</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_material_texture</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>tex</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Assign the latest material a texture referenced by the index tex. Of course, you will
have pushed this texture with <link linkend="s3d_push_texture">s3d_push_texture</link>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_pep_vertex">
<title>s3d_pep_vertex</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_vertex</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>x</parameter>,
float <parameter>y</parameter>,
float <parameter>z</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Alter the latest pushed vertex, overwriting with the supplied values.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_vertices">
<title>s3d_pep_vertices</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_vertices</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>vbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Alter the latest n pushed vertex. vbuf holds the values which
are used to overwrite the old data, n entries with each 3 floats
specifying x,y,z of the vertices.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_line">
<title>s3d_pep_line</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_line</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
int <parameter>v1</parameter>,
int <parameter>v2</parameter>,
int <parameter>material</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Alter the latest pushed line, overwriting with the supplied values.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_lines">
<title>s3d_pep_lines</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_lines</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const uint32_t *<parameter>lbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Alter the latest n pushed lines. lbuf holds the values which
are used to overwrite the old data, n entries with each 3 uint32_t
specifying first, second vertex and material of each line.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_line_normals">
<title>s3d_pep_line_normals</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_line_normals</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>nbuf</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Adds normal information to lines, giving each vertex of a line a normal information. This makes 
lines somewhat nicer, you'll need that especially when you're going to build wireframe models.
</para>
<para>
nbuf should contain n * 6 float values, for each vertex a normal vector (x,y,z), and you have 
2 Vertices for each line so that makes 6 float values per line in Total.	
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_load_line_normals">
<title>s3d_load_line_normals</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_load_line_normals</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>nbuf</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>start</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Just as <link linkend="s3d_pep_line_normals">s3d_pep_line_normals()</link>, with the difference you won't alter 
the latest n lines but n lines starting with index start.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_pep_material">
<title>s3d_pep_material</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_material</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>amb_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_b</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Overwriting the latest pushed Material, overwriting the current value with the specified one.
See <link linkend="s3d_pep_materials_a">s3d_pep_materials_a</link> if you want to pep more materials.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3d_pep_material_a">
<title>s3d_pep_material_a</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_material_a</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
float <parameter>amb_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>amb_a</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>spec_a</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_r</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_g</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_b</parameter>,
float <parameter>diff_a</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Overwriting the latest pushed Material, overwriting the current value with the specified one, with 
<link linkend="alpha">alpha value</link> in contrast to <link linkend="s3d_pep_material">s3d_pep_material</link>
See <link linkend="s3d_pep_materials_a">s3d_push_materials_a</link> if you want to pep more materials.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_pep_materials_a">
<title>s3d_pep_materials_a</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_pep_materials_a</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>mbuf</parameter>, 
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Alters the last n pushed Materials. See <link linkend="s3d_push_materials_a">s3d_push_materials_a()</link> for
more information how mbuf should look like. Use <link linkend="s3d_pep_material_a">s3d_pep_material_a()</link>
if you only want to alter the latest material.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_load_materials_a">
<title>s3d_load_materials_a</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_load_materials_a</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>mbuf</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>start</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Loads n materials starting from index position start into the Material stack.
See <link linkend="s3d_push_materials_a">s3d_push_materials_a</link> for more informatino about the values in mbuf.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3d_load_polygon_normals">
<title>s3d_load_polygon_normals</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_load_polygon_normals</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>nbuf</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>start</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Just as <link linkend="s3d_pep_polygon_normals">s3d_pep_polygon_normals()</link>, with the difference you won't alter 
the latest n polygons but n polygons starting with index start.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_load_polygon_tex_coords">
<title>s3d_load_polygon_tex_coords</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_load_polygon_tex_coords</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
const float *<parameter>tbuf</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>start</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>n</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Just as <link linkend="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords">s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coords()</link>, with the difference you won't alter 
the latest n polygons but n polygons starting with index start.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_load_texture">
<title>s3d_load_texture</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_load_texture</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>, 
uint32_t <parameter>tex</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>xpos</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>ypos</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>w</parameter>,
uint16_t <parameter>h</parameter>,
const uint8_t *<parameter>data</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This will load an 32bit rgba image supplied in data at position xpos,ypos of the texture tex. The image has
the width w and height h. This can be used to update only parts of the texture. It's no problem to supply big textures,
as the image will be sent to server in fragments. Of course, you will have created the texture with 
<link linkend="s3d_push_texture">s3d_push_texture</link>, have an material assigned to the texture with <link linkend="s3d_pep_material_texture">
s3d_pep_material_texture()</link> and have your polygons set sane polygon texture coords 
using <link linkend="s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord">s3d_pep_polygon_tex_coord()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_new_object">
<title>s3d_new_object</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_new_object</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Creates a new object, returning the object id.
<warning><para>Of course, you won't forget to <link linkend="s3d_flags_on">toggle</link> it <link linkend="S3D_OF_VISIBLE">visible</link>, won't you?</para></warning>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_del_object</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_del_object</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>oid</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Deletes the object referenced by oid.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_clone">
<title>s3d_clone</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_clone</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>oid</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Clones an already exisiting object. They get just look the same as the
parent-object and will change when the parent-object changes.
Cloning especially makes sense if you want to use the same object a lot of
times. Move and transform is independent from the parent.
The function returns the childs object id.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_clone_target</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_clone_target</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>oid</parameter>,
int <parameter>toid</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Changes the clone target of oid to another object (toid). This assumes you've got
oid from <link linkend="s3d_clone">s3d_clone</link> before.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_link</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_link</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>oid_from</parameter>,
int <parameter>oid_to</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
A linked object will move along with it's link parent. For example if you have
a book on a table, you can link the book to the table so the book will 
"keep on the table" if you move the table around in space.
It will also rotate with the table etc.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_unlink</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_unlink</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>oid</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Remove the link of object oid to its target.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_import_model_file">
<title>s3d_import_model_file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_import_model_file</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char *<parameter>fname</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Imports an 3d object file and returns the object number. Quite a number of formats are supported, like 3D Studio (.3ds, .prj), Lightwave (.lw, .lwb, .lwo), Quake Models (.md3),
		or simply everything <ulink url="http://automagically.de/?g3dviewer">libg3d</ulink> supports. :)
</para>
<warning><para>Of course, you won't forget to <link linkend="s3d_flags_on">toggle</link> it <link linkend="S3D_OF_VISIBLE">visible</link>, won't you?</para></warning>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_select_font">
<title>s3d_select_font</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_select_font</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char *<parameter>mask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This selects a font for the <link linkend="s3d_draw_string">s3d_draw_string()</link> function.
</para>
<warning><para>Of course, you won't forget to <link linkend="s3d_flags_on">toggle</link> it <link linkend="S3D_OF_VISIBLE">visible</link>, won't you?</para></warning>
<programlisting>
    s3d_select_font("vera"); /* will use the vera font face */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_draw_string">
<title>s3d_draw_string</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_draw_string</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char *<parameter>str</parameter>,
float *<parameter>xlen</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Renders the string str with in Truetype format with the height 1, returns
the length of the rendered string in *xlen (or set len=NULL to disable this).

</para>
<programlisting>
	char str="hello world!";
	float len;
	<link linkend="s3d_select_font">s3d_select_font</link>("vera");
	<emphasis>s3d_draw_string</emphasis>(str, len);

	/* not interested in the length? do that:
	 * <emphasis>s3d_draw_string</emphasis>(str, NULL); */
</programlisting>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_strlen">
<title>s3d_strlen</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>float <function>s3d_strlen</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char *<parameter>str</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Returns the length of the string if it were rendered with the currently <link linkend="s3d_select_font">selected font</link>.
		That might be useful to estimate the size used for a text and render the background or bounding box before inserting the text.

</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_open_file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_open_file</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char *<parameter>fname</parameter>,
char **<parameter>pointer</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This opens the file fname, setting *pointer to it's memory position. the
function will return the size of buffer. you can free() the pointer when
you're finished.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3d_flags_on">
<title>s3d_flags_on</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_flags_on</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>flags</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
turn some flags on for object.
</para>
<warning><para>if you don't toggle OF_VISIBLE on, you won't see your object. usually you want this. 
(at least after you *push()d all your content)</para></warning>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_flags_off">
<title>s3d_flags_off</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_flags_off</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
uint32_t <parameter>flags</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
turn some flags off for object.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_translate</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_translate</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
float <parameter>x</parameter>,
float <parameter>y</parameter>,
float <parameter>z</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Move the object to some position in space. when you create an object, it's 
always located at 0.0 , 0.0, 0.0.
</para>
<important><para>Translation is absolute, not relative!</para></important>
<programlisting>
<emphasis>s3d_translate</emphasis>(object, 2, 0, 0);
<emphasis>s3d_translate</emphasis>(object, 4, 0, 0);
/* object will end up at 4,0,0 and not 6,0,0!! */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_rotate</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_rotate</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
float <parameter>x</parameter>,
float <parameter>y</parameter>,
float <parameter>z</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
rotate an object around the x, y and z-axis respectively. x,y,z may have values
between [0,360] degrees. 
</para>
<para>
You will usually only rotate around one axis, leaving the unused fields on 0, I guess. 
If you want to rotate around more than one axis, please note: The order of the rotation
applies is y-axis, x-axis, and then z-axis. You can think of it as the earth position coordinates:
x is the longitude, y is the latitude, and z is the rotation at this point of the earth around your
bodies axis. (I wonder if that makes it any clearer ;)
</para>
<important><para>Rotate is absolute, not relative!</para></important>
<programlisting>
<emphasis>s3d_rotate</emphasis>(object, 90,  0, 0);
<emphasis>s3d_rotate</emphasis>(object, 180, 0, 0);
/* object will be rotated 180 degrees around the x-axis, not 270 degress! */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_scale</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_scale</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter>,
float <parameter>s</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Scales the object. about factor s. s=1 will be the original size, -1 will mirror it.
</para>
<important><para>s=0 is forbidden and will be ignored! s3d_scale is also absolute, not relative!</para></important>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_push_event</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_push_event</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>struct s3d_evt *<parameter>newevt</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pushes an <link linkend="s3d_evt">event</link> onto the event-stack. Usually you don't need to do this manually.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_pop_event</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>struct s3d_evt *<function>s3d_pop_event</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Pops the latest event from the stack. Don't forget to free() both the event
and its buffer! Returns a pointer to <link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_find_event">
<title>s3d_find_event</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>struct s3d_evt *<function>s3d_find_event</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>uint8_t <parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Finds the latest occurence of an event, giving the event type as argument.
Returns a pointer to <link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_delete_event</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_delete_event</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const struct s3d_evt *<parameter>devt</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
deletes an event, the argument is the pointer to the <link linkend="s3d_evt">event</link> which is to be 
deleted (maybe obtained from <link linkend="s3d_find_event">s3d_find_event</link>).
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_set_callback">
<title>s3d_set_callback</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_set_callback</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>uint8_t <parameter>event</parameter>,
s3d_cb <parameter>func</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
sets a <link linkend="s3d_cb">callback</link> for a certain event. this is very useful for event-oriented 
applications. event callbacks will not interrupt each other or the mainloop.
</para>
<important><para>Defining callbacks will only work after calling <link linkend="s3d_init">s3d_init()</link></para></important>
<programlisting>
 <![CDATA[#include <inttypes.h>]]>

void obj_click(<link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link> event)
{
	printf("object id %"PRIu32" got clicked", *((uint32_t *)event->buf));
}
...
	<link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback</link>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_NEW_OBJECT">S3D_EVENT_NEW_OBJECT</link>, obj_click);

/* this will tell you when a object got clicked */
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_ignore_callback</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_ignore_callback</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>uint8_t <parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Sets the callback on ignore, that means it won't be queued up for later use.
An incoming event of this type will simply be skipped.

</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_clear_callback</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_clear_callback</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>uint8_t <parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Clears the callback which is associated with the event.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_get_callback</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3d_cb <function>s3d_get_callback</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>uint8_t <parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Returns the <link linkend="s3d_cb">Callback-function</link> of the event.
</para>
<programlisting>
	<link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link> e;
	...
	<emphasis>s3d_get_callback</emphasis>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_KEY">S3D_EVENT_KEY</link>)(e);
	/* will call the key-handling function with argument e.  */

</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_process_stack</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_process_stack</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This function goes through all function of the event-stack and will call 
functions. this is useful when you define a new function but still have a lot 
of events of this type on the stack. 
</para>
<note><para>This is probably obsolete</para></note>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_vector_length</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>float <function>s3d_vector_length</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>vector</parameter>[]</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Calculates and returns the length of the given vector (which should be of the type float[3]).
More info <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_%28spatial%29#Length_of_a_vector">on wikipedia</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_vector_subtract</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_vector_subtract</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>vector1</parameter>[],
const float <parameter>vector2</parameter>[],
float <parameter>result_vector</parameter>[]</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Subtracts vector1 from vector2, writing result into result_vector.
All vectors should have the format  float[3].
More info <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_%28spatial%29#Vector_addition_and_subtraction">on wikipedia</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_vector_dot_product</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>float <function>s3d_vector_dot_product</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>vector1</parameter>[],
const float <parameter>vector2</parameter>[]</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Calculates and returns the dot product of vector1 and vector2.
All vectors should have the format  float[3].
More info <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_%28spatial%29#Dot_product">on wikipedia</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_vector_cross_product</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3d_vector_cross_product</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>vector1</parameter>[],
const float <parameter>vector2</parameter>[],
float <parameter>result_vector</parameter>[]</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Calculates and returns the cross product of vector1 and vector2.
All vectors should have the format  float[3].
More info <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_%28spatial%29#Cross_product">on wikipedia</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_vector_angle</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>float <function>s3d_vector_angle</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>vector1</parameter>[],
const float <parameter>vector2</parameter>[]</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Calculates and returns the angle between vector1 and vector2. Please note that the resulting angle is between 0 and PI, therefore not covering the whole period! To convert in degrees just do result*180/M_PI.
All vectors should have the format  float[3].
More info <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_%28spatial%29#Dot_product">on wikipedia</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_angle_to_cam</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>float <function>s3d_angle_to_cam</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const float <parameter>obj_pos</parameter>[],
const float <parameter>cam_pos</parameter>[],
float *<parameter>angle_rad</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
Given obj_pos and cam_pos in the format float[3], angle_rad about which angle the object should be rotated around the y-axis
so that it faces the camera. This might become handy if you have some text floating in space and want it to face the camera.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>s3d_mcp_focus</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_mcp_focus</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>int <parameter>object</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
This is an mcp-only function. It gives focus (for receiving key-strokes etc.)
to an app referenced by it's mcp-object-id. 
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>s3d_net_check</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3d.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3d_net_check</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		This functions is for programs which do not employ a mainloop, hence they need to check
		for new events on their own. Programs like these must make sure to call this function
		from time to time to convince the server that they did not freeze or bail out.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="data_types">
<title>Data types</title>

<sect2 id="s3d_obj_info">
<title>struct s3d_but_info</title>
<programlisting>
struct s3d_obj_info {
	uint32_t object;
	uint32_t flags;
	float trans_x, trans_y, trans_z;
	float rot_x, rot_y, rot_z;
	float scale;
	float r;
	char name[256];
};
</programlisting>
<para>
Can be used on the buffer of an <link linkend="s3d_evt">event</link> of type <link linkend="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO">S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO</link>.
name will usually contain nothing for usual objects, but mcp objects will contain the applications names here. r is the radius of the convex sphere
an object, which will also be interesting for the mcp.
</para>
<para>
Special objects like camera, pointer will have the "sys_" prefix in the name and will be named "pointer0", "pointer1" ... or "cam0", "cam1" ...
For cam object, scale will contain the aspect ratio.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3d_but_info">
<title>struct s3d_but_info</title>
<programlisting>
struct s3d_but_info {
	uint8_t button;
	uint8_t state;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
Can be used on the buffer of an <link linkend="s3d_evt">event</link> of type <link linkend="S3D_EVENT_MBUTTON">S3D_EVENT_MBUTTON</link>.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="mcp_object">
<title>struct mcp_object</title>
<programlisting>
struct mcp_object {
	uint32_t object;
	float trans_x, trans_y, trans_z;
	float r;
	char name[256];
};

</programlisting>
<para>
obsolete, deprecated, don't use, to be removed soon (use <link linkend="s3d_but_info">struct s3d_but_info</link>). ;)
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_evt">
<title>struct s3d_evt</title>
<programlisting>
struct s3d_evt {
	uint8_t event;
	int length;
	char *buf;
	struct s3d_evt *next;
};
</programlisting>
<para>

This is the event information holder. 
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>event</term>
<listitem><para>gives the <link linkend="s3d_events">event type</link></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>length</term>
<listitem><para>gives the length of the buffer *buf</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>*buf</term>
<listitem><para>is the pointer to the multiple purpose buffer, which will have more specific information about the object</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>*next</term>
<listitem><para>can be safely ignored ;)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

Depending on the event, buf can contain the keycode pressed on keyboard event, the <link linkend="s3d_but_info">mouse button state</link> on a mouse event, <link linkend="s3d_obj_info">object information</link> etc.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3d_cb">
<title>typedef s3d_cb</title>
<programlisting>
typedef void (*<emphasis>s3d_cb</emphasis>)(<link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link> *);
</programlisting>
<para>
This defines the callback format. Each callback should return void and take an argument of <link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt *</link>.
Callbacks can be defined with <link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback()</link>.
</para>
<programlisting>
/* a callback handler could look like this: */
void my_key_handler(struct s3d_evt *event_data)
{
	...
}
</programlisting>
</sect2>
</sect1>




<sect1 id="definitions">
<title>Definitions</title>




<sect2 id="s3d_events">
<title>S3D events</title>
<para>
This defines the callback format. Each callback should return void and take an argument of <link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt *</link>.
Callbacks can be defined with <link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback()</link>.
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK"/>S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK</term>
<listitem><para>
An object got clicked (when you set the flag <link linkend="S3D_OF_SELECTABLE">S3D_OF_SELECTABLE</link>), buf will contain the object id
of the object which got clicked (uint32_t)
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_KEY"/>S3D_EVENT_KEY</term>
<listitem><para>
A key was pressed, buf will contain a keycode. use  <![CDATA[#include <s3d_keysym.h>]]> to have the keycodes available. buf is a 2 byte unsigned short keycode.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_MBUTTON"/>S3D_EVENT_MBUTTON</term>
<listitem><para>
A mouse button was clicked. Use <link linkend="s3d_but_info">struct s3d_but_info</link> on buf to get more info.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_NEW_OBJECT"/>S3D_EVENT_NEW_OBJECT</term>
<listitem><para>
deprecated, will use <link linkend="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO">S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO</link>
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO"/>S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO</term>
<listitem><para>
Something happened to an object. This can happen if the camera was moved, the mouse (pointer) was moved or an application appeared/changed in the mcp

</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_MCP_OBJECT"/>S3D_MCP_OBJECT</term>
<listitem><para>
As the name suggests, those will only happen to the MCP. 
This tells it about new/changed application object. <link linkend="mcp_object">struct mcp_object</link>
can be used on buf. To be removed in the future.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_MCP_DEL_OBJECT"/>S3D_MCP_DEL_OBJECT</term>
<listitem><para>
As the name suggests, those will only happen to the MCP. 
This tells it about deleted application object. <link linkend="mcp_object">struct mcp_object</link>
can be used on buf. To be removed in the future.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_EVENT_QUIT"/>S3D_EVENT_QUIT</term>
<listitem><para>
Server sent the quit signal, or the connection was terminated. Usually, this is only processed internally.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>



</variablelist>
</para>
<programlisting>
/* a callback handler could look like this: */
void my_key_handler(struct s3d_evt *event_data)
{
	...
}
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3d_object_flags">
<title>S3D Object Flags</title>
<para>
Objects can have several flags to change their behaviour in the server and can be set with 
<link linkend="s3d_flags_on">s3d_flags_on()</link> and
<link linkend="s3d_flags_off">s3d_flags_off()</link>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_OF_VISIBLE"/>S3D_OF_VISIBLE</term>
<listitem><para>default:off</para><para>
Obviously, if this flag is toggled the user can see it, if not it will be hidden. ;)
</para><para>
When an object is created it's turned off, so you will be able push your geometry data and
turn it on after you're done. That avaoids flickering and stuff.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_OF_SELECTABLE"/>S3D_OF_SELECTABLE</term>
<listitem><para>default:off</para><para>
When this is toggled on, you will receive <link linkend="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK">click events</link>.
Don't use it if you don't need it, it will eat performance.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="S3D_OF_POINTABLE"/>S3D_OF_POINTABLE</term>
<listitem><para>default:off</para><para>
Placeholder for pointer (onmouseover-event enabler) events. Not implemented yet.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="Notes">
<title>Additional Notes</title>
<sect2 id="alpha">
<title>About alpha transparency</title>
<para>
Alpha transparency works, but polygons don't get ordered in view direction on the server yet. So please don't
use this feature yet. If you have an easy idea how to do that with opengl please drop me a line.
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>




</chapter>
