<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<chapter id="libs3dw">
<title>libs3wd - The S3D Widget Library</title>
<sect1 id="using_3dw">
<title>Using the <application>s3d</application> widget library</title>
<sect2 id="gettingstarted_s3dw">
<title>Getting started</title>
<para>
	Assuming you have already read about the lowlevel <link linkend="libs3d">libs3d s3d api</link>, the s3d widget library is 
	build on top of it and should be (hopefully) easy to use as any other widget library.
	Just include
	
 	<programlisting>
	  <![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]>
	 </programlisting>

	 and link with -ls3dw -ls3d, and everything should be fine. :)
	 <screen>
	 <prompt>bash$</prompt> <command> gcc <replaceable>program</replaceable>.c -ls3dw -ls3d -o <replaceable>program</replaceable> </command>
 	</screen>
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>


<sect1 id="functions_s3dw">
<title>function reference</title>



<sect2 id="s3dw_surface_new">
<title>s3dw_surface_new</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3dw_surface *<function>s3dw_surface_new</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const char         *<parameter>title</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>width</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>height</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Creates a new surface (a new window) with title "title" and dimension "width" x "height".
</para>
<para>
		See <link linkend="s3dw_surface">s3dw_surface</link> for information about callbacks which may be defined.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_button_new">
<title>s3dw_button_new</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3dw_button *<function>s3dw_button_new</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const s3dw_surface *<parameter>surface</parameter>,
const char         *<parameter>text</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posx</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posy</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Creates a new button on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>, 
		with "text" written on it and the upper left 
		corner at (posx,posy) on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>.
</para>
<para>
		See <link linkend="s3dw_button">s3dw_button</link> for information about callbacks which may be defined.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_input_new">
<title>s3dw_input_new</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3dw_input *<function>s3dw_input_new</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const s3dw_surface *<parameter>surface</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>width</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posx</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posy</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Creates a new input-box on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link> with a input width of "width",
		the upper left  corner at (posx,posy) on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>.
		The input-box is empty on creation and can be change with <link linkend="s3dw_input_change_text">s3dw_input_change_text</link>,
		and received with <link linkend="s3dw_input_gettext">s3dw_input_gettext</link>
</para>
<para>
		See <link linkend="s3dw_input">s3dw_input</link> for information about callbacks which may be defined.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_label_new">
<title>s3dw_label_new</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3dw_label *<function>s3dw_label_new</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const s3dw_surface *<parameter>surface</parameter>,
const char         *<parameter>text</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posx</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posy</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Creates a new label on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>, 
		with "text" written on it and the upper left 
		corner at (posx,posy) on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>.
</para>
<para>
		See <link linkend="s3dw_label">s3dw_label</link> for information about callbacks which may be defined.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_new">
<title>s3dw_textbox_new</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>s3dw_textbox *<function>s3dw_textbox_new</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const s3dw_surface *<parameter>surface</parameter>,
const char         *<parameter>text</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posx</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>posy</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>width</parameter>,
float		  <parameter>height</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Creates a new textbox on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>,
		with "text" written on it and the upper left
		corner at (posx,posy) on the <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>.
		Width and height define the size of the textbox including scrollbars which
		are rendered around the textfield.
</para>
<para>
		See <link linkend="s3dw_textbox">s3dw_textbox</link> for information about callbacks which may be defined.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_scrollup">
<title>s3dw_textbox_scrollup</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_scrollup</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Scrolls the text in the textbox up by one line, if possible.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_scrolldown">
<title>s3dw_textbox_scrolldown</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_scrolldown</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Scrolls the text in the textbox down by one line, if possible.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_scrollleft">
<title>s3dw_textbox_scrollleft</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_scrollleft</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Scrolls the text in the textbox to the left by one character, if possible.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_scrollright">
<title>s3dw_textbox_scrollright</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_scrollright</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Scrolls the text in the textbox to the right by one character, if possible.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_scrollto">
<title>s3dw_textbox_scrollto</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_scrollto</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter>,
int <parameter>x</parameter>,
int <parameter>y</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Scrolls the text in the textbox so that the character in row y, column x is in the
		top left corner of the textbox.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3dw_getroot">
<title>s3dw_getroot</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
	<funcdef>s3dw_widget *<function>s3dw_getroot</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Returns the root-<link linkend="s3dw_widget">widget</link>, which holds all the surfaces. E.g. if you want
		to move all widgets at once, adjust the root-widgets x,y,z and use <link linkend="s3dw_moveit">s3dw_moveit()</link>
</para>
<programlisting>
		<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link> *root = <emphasis>s3dw_getroot</emphasis>();
		/* move <link linkend="s3dw_widget">widget</link> center to (0,5,0). upon creation, it's centered at (0,0,0), 
		 * so this might move it up */
		root->x=0;
		root->y=5;
		root->z=0;
		<link linkend="s3dw_moveit">s3dw_moveit</link>(root);
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_input_gettext">
<title>s3dw_input_gettext</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>char *<function>s3dw_input_gettext</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_input *<parameter>input</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Returns the text which is currently entered in the referenced <link linkend="s3dw_input">input-box</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_input_change_text">
<title>s3dw_input_change_text</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_input_change_text</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_input *<parameter>input</parameter>,
const 		char *<parameter>text</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Change the text in the referenced <link linkend="s3dw_input">input-box</link> to the specified text.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_label_change_text">
<title>s3dw_label_change_text</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_label_change_text</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_label *<parameter>label</parameter>,
const 		char *<parameter>text</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Change the text in the referenced <link linkend="s3dw_label">label</link> to the specified text.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox_change_text">
<title>s3dw_textbox_change_text</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_textbox_change_text</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_textbox *<parameter>textbox</parameter>,
const 		char *<parameter>text</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Change the text in the referenced <link linkend="s3dw_textbox">textbox</link> to the specified text.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_delete">
<title>s3dw_delete</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_delete</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_widget *<parameter>widget</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
	Deletes any widget. Should be casted with <link linkend="S3DWIDGET">S3DWIDGET()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_moveit">
<title>s3dw_moveit</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_moveit</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_widget *<parameter>widget</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Moves/translates the widget as you specified in it's private <link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget structure</link>.
		Should be casted with <link linkend="S3DWIDGET">S3DWIDGET()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_show">
<title>s3dw_show</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_show</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_widget *<parameter>widget</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Switches a <link linkend="s3dw_widget">widget</link> visible. Should be casted with <link linkend="S3DWIDGET">S3DWIDGET()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_focus">
<title>s3dw_focus</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_focus</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>s3dw_widget *<parameter>focus</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		Gives focus to the <link linkend="s3dw_widget">widget</link>, relative to its parent. That means you can focus a 
		<link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link>, and each <link linkend="s3dw_surface">surface</link> can focus 
		one of its element, e.g. an input field. 
		Should be casted with <link linkend="S3DWIDGET">S3DWIDGET()</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_handle_click">
<title>s3dw_handle_click</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3dw_handle_click</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const		struct s3d_evt *<parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
	If you want your widgets on mouseclicks (believe me, you want that), you have to call this
	either in your clickhandler-function or specifiy it itself as the clickhandler.
</para>
<programlisting>
/* way 1: */
<link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback</link>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK">S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK</link>,<emphasis>s3dw_handle_click</emphasis>);

/* way 2: */
...
void click(<link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link> *evt)
{
	<emphasis>s3dw_handle_click</emphasis>(evt);
	.... 
	/* your own clickhandler code */
	...
}
....
<link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback</link>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK">S3D_EVENT_OBJ_CLICK</link>,click);
</programlisting>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_handle_key">
<title>s3dw_handle_key</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3dw_handle_key</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>const		struct s3d_evt *<parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
	This is somehow useful to call in your keyhandler functions if you want to 
	have input-boxes work. ;)
</para>
<programlisting>
/* way 1: */
<link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback</link>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_KEY">S3D_EVENT_KEY</link>,<emphasis>s3dw_handle_key</emphasis>);

/* way 2: */
...
void key(<link linkend="s3d_evt">struct s3d_evt</link> *evt)
{
	<emphasis>s3dw_handle_key</emphasis>(evt);
	.... 
	/* your own keyhandler code */
	...
}
....
<link linkend="s3d_set_callback">s3d_set_callback</link>(<link linkend="S3D_EVENT_KEY">S3D_EVENT_KEY</link>,key);
</programlisting>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_object_info">
<title>s3dw_object_info</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>int <function>s3dw_object_info</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>struct s3d_evt *<parameter>event</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
		This can be used to let s3dw handle S3D_EVENT_OBJ_INFO-events. With this,
		s3dw can consider the camera position and makes things like following the
		camera possible.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_ani_mate">
<title>s3dw_ani_mate</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcsynopsisinfo><![CDATA[#include <s3dw.h>]]></funcsynopsisinfo>
<funcprototype>
<funcdef>void <function>s3dw_ani_mate</function></funcdef>
<paramdef>void</paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
	Just call this in your mainloop if you want
	some nice window sliding animations. it's somewhat bloating, but you don't want to miss it ;)
</para>
<programlisting>
<![CDATA[#include <time.h>]]>   /* nanosleep() */
static struct timespec t={0,33*1000*1000}; /* 33 mili seconds */
void mainloop()
{
    /* keep this in your mainloop. this will do smooth animations for you ... */
    s3dw_ani_mate();
    nanosleep(<![CDATA[&t,NULL]]>);
}

....
<link linkend="s3d_mainloop">s3d_mainloop</link>(mainloop);
</programlisting>
</sect2>

</sect1>
<sect1 id="data_types_s3dw">
<title>Data types</title>



<sect2 id="s3dw_widget">
<title>s3dw_widget</title>
<programlisting>
struct _s3dw_widget {
	/* private .. */
	int         type;
	s3dw_widget *parent;
	s3dw_style  *style;
	int         nobj;          /* number of children objects */
	s3dw_widget **pobj;        /* pointer to list of children objects */
	int         focus;         /* index of the widget focused in pobj */
	int         flags;         /* flags like visibility */
	float       ax, ay, az;    /* current position for animation */
	float       as;            /* current scale factor */
	float       arx, ary, arz; /* current rotation */
	float       width, height; /* width and height of the widget, outer size */
	uint32_t    oid;           /* the main object which is used for transformations etc ...*/
	/* public */
	void        *ptr;          /* a pointer to a user structure, to use in callbacks etc */
	float       x, y, z;       /* position, relative to the surface usually */
	float       s;             /* scale factor */
	float       rx, ry, rz;    /* rotation around the axis */
};
typedef struct _s3dw_widget     s3dw_widget;

/* type may be one of the following ... */		

enum {
	S3DW_TROOT,
	S3DW_TCAM,
	S3DW_TSURFACE,
	S3DW_TBUTTON,
	S3DW_TLABEL,
	S3DW_TINPUT,
	S3DW_TTEXTBOX,
	S3DW_TSCROLLBAR,
	S3DW_NTYPES
};
<anchor id="S3DWIDGET"/>
#define     S3DWIDGET(x)    ((s3dw_widget *)x)
						
</programlisting>
<para>
		This is the most basic widget type, it contains all the "general" widget information. If you want to move a widget, you'd
		change x,y,z,s and rx,ry,rz and call <link linkend="s3dw_moveit">s3dw_moveit</link> to turn your action reality. Every other
		widget has this type as first entry, so a simple typecast to <emphasis>s3dw_widget</emphasis> will give you the widgets "general"
		information. For typecast, you may use S3DWIDGET().
</para>
<para>
		The pointer ptr allows linking to user-specific datastructures. That comes in handy if the widget is called back by an event,
		and the program must now find out on which data the user reacted.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_button">
<title>s3dw_button</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_button     s3dw_button;
struct _s3dw_button {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	char            *text;
	uint32_t    oid_text;
	/* public */
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    onclick;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
	The buttons is just a button as you would expect it in a 2D widget library. It only reacts on clicks.
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_input">
<title>s3dw_input</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_input     s3dw_input;
struct _s3dw_input {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	char            *text;
	uint32_t    oid_text;
	/* public */
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    onclick;
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    onedit;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
		The inputs is an input-field where a user may type things. onclick reacts on click in the field,
		onedit notifies you when someone writes in the field.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_textbox">
<title>s3dw_textbox</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_textbox     s3dw_textbox;
struct _s3dw_textbox {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_scrollbar</link>      *scroll_vertical, *scroll_horizontal;
	char            *text;
	int				n_lineoids, *p_lineoids;
	int 			window_x, window_y;
	/* public */
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    onclick;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
	A textbox shows some text with scrollbars to scroll around. It can currently only react to a click event.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_scrollbar">
<title>s3dw_scrollbar</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_scrollbar     s3dw_scrollbar;
struct _s3dw_scrollbar {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	float			pos, max;
	int				type;  /* 0 = horizontal, 1 = vertical */
	int 			loid, roid, baroid;
	/* public */
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    lonclick, ronclick;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
		The Scrollbar should be placed around scrollable content. Currently only the
		left and right icons are clickable (lonclick and ronclick callbacks), in
		vertical mode lonclick is the callback for the up icon,
		ronclick the callback for the down icon.
</para>
</sect2>



<sect2 id="s3dw_label">
<title>s3dw_label</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_label     s3dw_label;
struct _s3dw_label {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	char            *text;
	/* public */
	<link linkend="s3dw_callback">s3dw_callback</link>    onclick;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
		The labels is an label-field where a user may type things. onclick reacts on click in the field,
		onedit notifies you when someone writes in the field.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_surface">
<title>s3dw_surface</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_surface     s3dw_surface;
struct _s3dw_surface {
    /* private */
	<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link>      widget;
	uint32_t         oid_title;
	uint32_t         oid_tbar;
	char            *title;
};
</programlisting>
<para>
	A surface is the window of this widget library, holding all of our elements like <link linkend="s3dw_button">buttons</link>, 
	<link linkend="s3dw_input">inputfields</link> etc ...
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="s3dw_style">
<title>s3dw_style</title>
<programlisting>
typedef struct _s3dw_style     s3dw_style;
/* style */
struct _s3dw_style {
    char *name;                 /* name of the style ... kind of redundant */
    char *fontface;             /* font face for all used fonts */
    float surface_mat[12];      /* material for the surface background */
    float input_mat[12];        /* material for buttonboxes and other widgets */
    float inputback_mat[12];    /* material for inputfield background */
    float text_mat[12];         /* material for the text on buttons and inputs */
    float title_mat[12];        /* material for the title bar */
    float title_text_mat[12];   /* material for the text on the title bar */
};

</programlisting>
<para>
	With s3dw_style you can change the colors/materials of your widgets. materials are in the same as in 
	<link linkend="s3d_push_materials_a">s3d_push_materials_a</link>, that means red,green,blue and alpha float values 
	(between 0.0 and 1.0) for Ambience, Specular and Diffuse Color.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="s3dw_callback">
<title>s3dw_callback</title>
<programlisting>
typedef void (*s3dw_callback)(s3dw_widget *);

</programlisting>
<para>
	The callback type. Receive the widget which is affected as argument.
</para>
<programlisting>
/* example */
void my_handler(<link linkend="s3dw_widget">s3dw_widget</link> *widget)
{
	/* do something with the widget */
	...
}
</programlisting>
</sect2>


</sect1>
</chapter>
